Inference - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Semantic Web Vertical Applications Inference Query Ontologies Data Skip W3C » Standards » Semantic Web » Inference Inference On this page ? what is inference • what inferece is used for • examples • learn more • current status of specifications and groups What is Inference? Broadly speaking, inference on the Semantic Web can be characterized bydiscovering new relationships. On the Semantic Web, data is modeled as aset of (named) relationships between resources. “Inference” means thatautomatic procedures can generate new relationships based on the dataand based on some additional information in the form of a vocabulary, e.g., aset of rules. Whether the new relationships are explicitly added to theset of data, or are returned at query time, is an implementationissue. On the Semantic Web, the source of such extra information can be definedvia vocabularies or rule sets. Both of these approaches draw upon knowledge representation techniques. Ingeneral, ontologies concentrate on classification methods, putting anemphasis on defining 'classes', 'subclasses', on how individualresources can be associated to such classes, and characterizing therelationships among classes and their instances. Rules, on the otherhand, concentrate on defining a general mechanism on discovering andgenerating new relationships based on existing ones, much like logicprograms, like Prolog, do. In the family of Semantic Web related W3CRecommendations RDFS, OWL, or SKOS are the tools of choice to define ontologies, whereasRIF has been developed to cover rule based approaches. What Inference is Used For? Inference on the Semantic Web is one of the tools of choice to improve the quality of data integration on the Web, by discovering new relationships, automatically analysing the content of the data, or managing knowledge on the Web in general. Inference based techniques are also important in discovering possible inconsistencies in the (integrated) data. Examples A simple example may help. The data set to be considered may include therelationship (Flipper isA Dolphin). An ontology may declare that “everyDolphin is also a Mammal”. That means that a Semantic Web programunderstanding the notion of “X is also Y” can add the statement (Flipper isA Mammal) to the set ofrelationships, although that was not part of the original data. One can also say that the new relationshipwas “discovered”. Another example is to express that fact that “if twopersons have the same name, home page, and email address, then they areidentical”. In this case, the “identity” of two resources can bediscovered via inferencing. Usage and techniques of ontologies and rules largely overlap. Verybroadly speaking, ontologies optimize for taxonomic reasoning problems,and rule based systems optimize for reasoning problems within the data.The difference is largely a matter of style, and criteria like availableexpertise, ease of adapting to existing data, tooling support, maturityand costs, etc., should be considered as far more important when tryingto choose. Learn More The Semantic Web community maintains a list of books on a W3C Wiki page. Some of those books are introductory in nature while others are conference proceedings or textbook that address more advanced topics. Details of recent and upcoming Semantic Web related talks, given by the W3C Staff, the staff of the W3C Offices, and members of the W3C Working Groups are available separately; the slides are usually publicly available. The W3C also maintains a collection of Semantic Web Case Studies and Use Cases that show how Semantic Web technologies, including inference, is used in practice. Finally, the Semantic Web FAQ may also be of help in understanding the various concepts. Current Status of Specifications Learn more about the current status of specifications related to: RIF Rule Interchange Format OWL Web Ontology Language RDF These W3C Groups are working on the related specifications: Government Linked Data Working Group Linked Data Platform (LDP) Working Group RDF Working Group RDFa Working Group Semantic Web Interest Group Current Status RIF Rule Interchange Format OWL Web Ontology Language RDF Use It Tutorials Business Case Software Validators RDF Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio, Beihang) Usage policies apply.