Semantic Web - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Standards Web Design and Applications Web Architecture Semantic Web XML Technology Web of Services Web of Devices Browsers and Authoring Tools All Standards and Drafts About W3C Standards Skip W3C » Standards » Semantic Web Semantic Web On this page ? technology topics • news • upcoming events and talks In addition to the classic “Web of documents” W3C is helping to build a technology stack to support a “Web of data,” the sort of data you find in databases. The ultimate goal of the Web of data is to enable computers to do more useful work and to develop systems that can support trusted interactions over the network. The term “Semantic Web” refers to W3C’s vision of the Web of linked data. Semantic Web technologies enable people to create data stores on the Web, build vocabularies, and write rules for handling data. Linked data are empowered by technologies such as RDF, SPARQL, OWL, and SKOS. Linked Data The Semantic Web is a Web of data — of dates and titles and part numbers and chemical properties and any other data one might conceive of. RDF provides the foundation for publishing and linking your data. Various technologies allow you to embed data in documents (RDFa, GRDDL) or expose what you have in SQL databases, or make it available as RDF files. Vocabularies At times it may be important or valuable to organize data. Using OWL (to build vocabularies, or “ontologies”) and SKOS (for designing knowledge organization systems) it is possible to enrich data with additional meaning, which allows more people (and more machines) to do more with the data. Query Query languages go hand-in-hand with databases. If the Semantic Web is viewed as a global database, then it is easy to understand why one would need a query language for that data. SPARQL is the query language for the Semantic Web. Inference Near the top of the Semantic Web stack one finds inference — reasoning over data through rules. W3C work on rules, primarily through RIF and OWL, is focused on translating between rule languages and exchanging rules among different systems. Vertical Applications W3C is working with different industries — for example in Health Care and Life Sciences, eGovernment, and Energy — to improve collaboration, research and development, and innovation adoption through Semantic Web technology. For instance, by aiding decision-making in clinical research, Semantic Web technologies will bridge many forms of biological and medical information across institutions. News Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 17 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb Version 7.0of the Unicode Standardis now available, adding 2,834 newcharacters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols forthe Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji(pictographic symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-usedand historic scripts, as well as character additions to manyexisting scripts. These additions extend support for writtenlanguages of North America, China, India, other Asian countries,and Africa. See the link above for full details. Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters inlong-standing and widespread use in Wingdings and Webdingsfonts. Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. Newproperty values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach torendering Indic scripts. These include properties for joiningbehavior, new classes for numbers, and a further division of thesyllabic categories of viramas and rephas. With these enhancements,the default rendering for newly added Indic scripts can besignificantly improved. Unicode character properties were extended to the newcharacters. The old characters have enhancements to Script andAlphabetic properties, and casing and line-breaking behavior. Therewere also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese pronunciation entries, as wellas new or clarified stability policies for promoting interoperableimplementations. Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained insynchrony with the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version7.0. These will be released at the same time: UTS #10,Unicode Collation Algorithm— the standard for sorting Unicodetext UTS #46,Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing— for processing ofnon-ASCII URLs (IDNs) Workshop report: Summary of the LD4LT group kickoff / LIDERroadmapping workshop 11 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb The LIDER project haspublished a report on the first Linked Data forLanguage Technology event, which was held 21st March inalignment with the European Data Forum in Athens. Read the report. Industry stakeholders from many areas (localization, publishing,language technology applications etc.) and key researchers fromlinked data and language technology discussed promises andchallenges around linguistic linked data. The report summarizes allpresentations and includes an initial list of use cases andrequirements for linguistic linked data. This and the overalloutcome of the event will feed into work of the LD4LT group (seeespecially the LD4LT latest draft version of use cases), and the field ofmultilingual linked data in general. The LD4LT group is partof the MultilingualWeb community – learn more about relatedprojects. Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 06 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb A Last Call Working Draft of Encodinghas been published. While encodings have been defined to some extent,implementations have not always implemented them in the same way,have not always used the same labels, and often differ in dealingwith undefined and former proprietary areas of encodings. Thisspecification attempts to fill those gaps so that newimplementations do not have to reverse engineer encodingimplementations of the market leaders and existing implementationscan converge. The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version asof the date of its publication, intended to provide a stablereference for other specifications. We are hoping for people toreview the specification and send comments about any technicalareas that need attention (see the Status section for details). Please send comments by 1 July 2014. One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to thefuture of Web and localization standards! 28 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference inDublin, the FEISGILTT event will again provide an opportunity to discusslatest developments around localization and multilingual Webtechnologies. The event is sponsored by the LIDER project. Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and asession about usage scenarios for linguistic linked data inlocalization. Speakers include Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), BryanSchnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) and many more. Register nowto meet the key players around standards thatwill influence today’s and future business. Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 15 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb The slides from the MultilingualWeb workshop (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshopare now available for download.Additional material (videos of the presentations, a workshop reportand more) will follow in the next weeks – stay tuned. MultilingualWeb workshop 7-8 May – follow via live stream! 06 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb The MultilingualWeb workshop on 7-8 May will be streamed live ! Follow the event online if you cannot make it toMadrid. For details about speakers and presentations see the workshop program . The workshop is supported by the LIDER project and sponsoredby Verisign and Lionbridge. Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8May 11 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb See the program.The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma,Director of Language Engineering from the Wikimedia Foundation. Sheis followed by a strong line up in sessions entitled Developers,Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including speakers fromMicrosoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL,Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On theafternoon of the second day we will hold Open Space breakoutdiscussions. Abstracts and details about an additional postersession will be provided shortly. The program will also feature an LD4LT event on May 8-9, focusing on text analytics and theusefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for multiilngual text andcontent analytics, and on language resources and aspects ofconverting selected types of language resources into RDF. Participation in both events is free. See the Call for Participation for details about how to register for theMultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT event requires a separate registrationand you have the opportunity to submitposition statements about language resources and RDF. If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, soplease be sure to register soon to ensure that you get a place. The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commissionand coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standardsrelated to all aspects of creating, localizing and deploying themultilingual Web. The workshops are successful because they attracta wide range of participants, from fields such as localization,language technology, browser development, content authoring andtool development, etc., to create a holistic view of theinteroperability needs of the multilingual Web. We look forward to seeing you in Madrid! Registration for Workshop on Linked Data, Language Technologies andMultilingual Content Analytics now open! 04 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb Register now for the recently announced workshop on Linked Data, LanguageTechnologies and Multilingual Content Analytics (8-9 May, Madrid).A preliminary agenda has been created and the registration formis available. If you are interested in contributing a position statementplease indicate this in the dedicated field in the registrationform. The workshop organizers will come back to you with questionsto answer in the position statement. We then will select whichstatements are appropriate for presentations on 9 May, and informyou by 28 April. We are looking forward to see you in Madrid, both for this eventand the MultilingualWeb workshop! Updated article: Choosing & applying a character encoding 01 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb This updatebrings the article in line with recent developmentsin HTML5, and reorganizes the material so that readers can findinformation more quickly. This led to the article being almostcompletely rewritten. The article addresses the question: Which character encodingshould I use for my content, and how do I apply it to mycontent? German, Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, Swedish andUkrainian translators are asked to update their translation of thisarticle within the next month, otherwise the translations will beremoved per the translation policy, since the changes aresubstantive. Extend your stay for the upcoming MultilingualWeb workshop! Jointhe LIDER Workshop 8-9 May, to discuss Wikipedia, MultilingualAnalytics and Linked Data for Language Resources 26 March2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cSemanticWeb Aligned with the MultilingualWeb workshop (7-8 May, Madrid), the LIDER project isorganizing a roadmapping workshop 8-9 May . The 8 May afternoon session willprovide a keynote by Seth Grimesand alsofocus on the topic of Wikipedia for multilingual Web content. Viaseveral panels including contributions from key Wikipediaengineers, we will discuss cross lingual analytics and intelligentmultilingual content handling in Wikipedia. On 9 May, a 1/2 daysession will focus on aspects of migrating language resources intolinked data. Mark your calendar now! A dedicated registration form includingways to contribute to the workshop agenda will be made availablesoon. Talks and Appearances None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances. Events None. See full list of W3C Events. Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM,Keio, Beihang) Usage policiesapply.