Techniques for User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 [next chapter] [contents] Techniques for User AgentAccessibility Guidelines 1.0 W3C Note 17 December 2002 This version: http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/NOTE-UAAG10-TECHS-20021217/ Latest version: http://www.w3.org/TR/UAAG10-TECHS/ Previous version: http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/WD-UAAG10-TECHS-20021016/ Editors: Ian Jacobs, W3C Jon Gunderson, University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign Eric Hansen, Educational TestingService Authors and Contributors: See acknowledgements. Please refer to theerrata forthis document, which may include some normative corrections. This document is also available in these non-normativepackages: single HTML [669K](gzipped [148K]),gzip tar file ofHTML [556K], andzip archive of HTML [572K]. See alsotranslationsof this document. Copyright© 1999 - 2002W3C®(MIT, INRIA,Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3Cliability,trademark,documentuse andsoftwarelicensing rules apply. Abstract This document provides techniques for satisfying the checkpoints defined in"User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0"[UAAG10]. These techniques addresskey aspects of the accessibility of user interfaces, content rendering,application programming interfaces (APIs), and languagessuch as the Hypertext Markup Language(HTML), Cascading StyleSheets (CSS) and theSynchronized Multimedia Integration Language(SMIL). The techniques listed in this document are not required for conformance tothe Guidelines. These techniques are not necessarily the only way of satisfyingthe checkpoint, nor are they a definitive set of requirements for satisfying acheckpoint. Status of this document This section describes the status of this document at the time of itspublication. Other documents may supersede this document. The latest status ofthis document series is maintained at the W3C. This is the 17 December 2002 Note of "Techniques for User AgentAccessibility Guidelines 1.0." It is a draft document and may be updated,replaced or obsoleted by other documents at any time. It is inappropriate touse this document as reference material or to cite it as other than "work inprogress." Though this document has been endorsed by the User AgentAccessibility Guidelines Working Group, it has not been endorsed by the W3CMembership. While User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 strives to be a stabledocument (as a W3C Recommendation), the current document is expected to evolveas technologies change and software developers discover more effectivetechniques for designing accessible user agents. This document was produced by the UserAgent Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (UAWG). Thegoals of the UAWG are described inUAWG charter. Thecomplete list ofchanges to this document is available on the Web. The UAWG also provides additional resources to support this document (e.g.,Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ) about UAAG 1.0, implementation reports, and test suites). Pleaseconsult the UAWG home page for moreinformation. Patent disclosures relevant to this specification may be found on theWorking Group's patent disclosure page inconformance with W3C policy. The list of errata forthis document is available at http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/UAAG-errata. Pleasereport errors in this document towai-uaag-editor@w3.org. Please send other comments about this document to the public mailing listw3c-wai-ua@w3.org;public archivesare available. The English version of this document is the authoritative version.Translations intoother languages may be available athttp://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/UAAG-translations. This document is part of a series of accessibility documents published bythe Web Accessibility Initiative(WAI) of the WorldWide Web Consortium(W3C). WAIAccessibility Guidelines are produced as part of theWAI TechnicalActivity. A list of current W3C Recommendations andother technical documents can be found at the W3C Web site. Table of contents Abstract Status of this document 1 Introduction 2 The user agent accessibilityguidelines 1. Support input and outputdevice-independence 2.Ensure user access to all content 3.Allow configuration not to render some content that may reduceaccessibility 4. Ensure user control of rendering 5.Ensure user control of user interface behavior 6. Implement interoperable applicationprogramming interfaces 7. Observeoperating environment conventions 8. Implement specifications that benefitaccessibility 9. Providenavigation mechanisms 10. Orientthe user 11. Allowconfiguration and customization 12.Provide accessible user agent documentation and help 3Accessibility topics 3.1 Access tocontent 3.2 User control of rendering andstyle 3.3 Linktechniques 3.4 Listtechniques 3.5 Tabletechniques 3.6 Image map techniques 3.7 Frametechniques 3.8 Formtechniques 3.9Generated content techniques 3.10Content repair techniques 3.11 Scriptand applet techniques 3.12 Input configuration techniques 3.13Synthesized speech techniques 3.14 Techniques for reducing dependency onspatial interactions 3.15Accessibility and internationalization techniques 3.16 Appendix: Impact matrix 3.17Appendix: Accessibility features of some operating systems 3.18 Appendix: Loading assistivetechnologies for access to the document object model 4 Glossary 5 References 5.1 How to referto this document 5.2 Normativereferences 5.3Informative references 6 Resources 6.1 Operatingsystem and programming guidelines 6.2 User agentsand other tools 6.3Accessibility resources 6.4 Standardsresources 7Acknowledgments Note: With a user agent that implements HTML 4[HTML4] access keys, readers maynavigate directly to the table of contents via the "c" character. Users mayhave to use additional keyboard strokes depending on their operatingenvironment. [next chapter] [contents]