W3C activities related to Electronic Commerce W3C and Electronic Commerce W3C Note 07 January 2000 This version: http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-EC-related-activities-20000107 Latest version: http://www.w3.org/TR/EC-related-activities Editors: Thierry MICHEL, W3C Copyright ©2000 W3C® (MIT, INRIA, Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3C liability, trademark, document use and software licensing rules apply. Abstract This document describes the current W3C activities related to ElectronicCommerce for the purpose of assessing the Consortium's future role inecommerce-related work. It presents the work within theW3C Electronic CommerceActivity and across all W3C Activities which are directly related to Electronic Commerce. We expect this paper to serve as the basisfor a discussion of W3C's role in ecommerce arena and, in particular, thefuture of the Electronic CommerceInterest Group. Status of this document This document is a NOTE made available by the W3C for discussion only.Publication of this Note by W3C indicates no endorsement by W3C or the W3CTeam, or any W3C Members. This Note may be updated, replaced or renderedobsolete by other W3C documents at any time. It is inappropriate to use W3CNotes as reference material or to cite them as other than "work in progress".This document has been produced as part of theW3C Electronic CommerceActivity. Members are welcome to send detailed comments on this document to the mailinglist of the Electronic Commerce Interest Group(w3c-ecommerce-ig@w3.org andarchives[Member restricted]). We cannot guarantee a personal response, but we willtry when it is appropriate. Depending on the response from interested/affected W3C Working Groups andfrom the W3C Members at large, submitters' suggestions will be brought tothe attention of the Electronic CommerceInterest Group for further work on Electronic Commerce issues. A list of current W3C technical reports and publications, including WorkingDrafts and Notes, can be found athttp://www.w3.org/TR. Table of Contents Introduction W3C Activities related to Electronic Commerce Acknowledged Submissions to W3C related to Electronic Commerce Other resources related to Electronic Commerce Conclusion 1-Introduction An major factor in the evolution of the Web is Electronic Commerce: the abilityto buy, sell, and advertise goods and services to customers and consumers.One concern in the development of Electronic Commerce on the Web is the trustthat can be placed in the provenance, reliability, security and privacy ofinformation available from or transferred over the internet. Another concernis the need for low friction commerce transactions allowing quality andease of use for consumers, a key factor the future of Electronic Commerce.The potential for global electronic commerce is immense; much of this potentialis and will be realized by the continued development of Web technologies.The World Wide Web Consortium, leading the web to its full potential, istherefore concerned with the evolution of Electronic Commerce on the Web.The role of W3C is to focus on core infrastructure technologies for ElectronicCommerce and identify common infrastructure needed in this area. W3Cis not committed for example in specifying banking systems nor schemas forspecific Electronic Commerce applications. W3C, through the following activities is committed to key factors for successin the evolution of Electronic Commerce: The Micropayment initiative specifies how to provide in a Web page all the information necessary to initialize a micropayment and transfer this information to the wallet for processing. The W3C Metadata Activity provides a means to make statements and create machine-readable statements. The W3C Digital Signature Initiative provides a mechanism for signing documents and metadata in order to establish who made the statement. The PICS Rules specification allows to establish rules that can be understood by machines and exchanged by users. The Platform for Privacy Preferences Project (P3P) provides communication about data privacy practices between consumers and merchant sites on the Web as well as enhanced user control over the use and disclosure of personal information. The now-completed JEPI project created the Protocol Extension Protocol (PEP) to provide for negotiation on the Web for binding terms and conditions. Major W3C common specifications for the Web in areas such as network protocols, graphical user interface, remain the basis of Electronic Commerce. 2- W3C Activities related to Electronic Commerce Activities related to Electronic Commerce are widely spread across the allWorld Wide Web Consortium. TheElectronic CommerceActivity is the core framework in this area, but other activities withinW3C are also involved in Electronic Commerce like in theTechnology & Society Domain whichhas addressed different issues on privacy, security, and content controlthat are major concerns in Electronic Commerce and for the web of trust.Therefore, technologies specified in theTechnology & Society Domain,Architecture Domain andUser interface Domain areprecious for the development and for the future of Electronic Commerce.The Consortium is committed in the following Electronic Commerce relatedtopics: 2.1- The Electronic Commerce Activity The Electronic CommerceActivity is of course dedicated to this area. It hosts anElectronic Commerce Interest Groupserving as a forum to explore cooperation and exchange ideas. This Interest Group has lead to the creation of Working Groups for theMicropayment Initiative and the Electronic Payment Initiative. 2.1.a- The Electronic Commerce Interest Group The Electronic Commerce InterestGroup is a forum designed to allow the members to evaluate potentialWeb technologies in the Electronic Commerce area and to share informationwith the Consortium staff and other members about: Problems they have encountered (and proposed solutions) Priorities (in addressing the problems) Work underway in related areas What role, if any, the Consortium should play The Electronic Commerce Interest Group has met three times in the last twoyears, inBrussels,Seattle, andParis.There is an on-going email list(w3c-ecommerce-ig@w3.org andarchives[Member restricted]) associated with the Interest Group which is from itsbeginning very quiet. 2.1.b- Micropayments Initiative The Electronic Commerce Activity is currently involved in realizing theopportunities inMicropayments, andthis has formed the main task of the Activity for the last 12 months.Micropayments arevery small payments made over the Web for documents that you access.Micropayments cover transactions which are too small to be economical ascredit card transactions, and can be as little as a fraction of a cent.Micropayments provide an alternative to subscription and advertising as asource of revenue. The Micropayments Initiative hosts two Working Groups: TheMicropaymentMarkup Working Group [Member restricted]: The embedding of paymentinformation in Web pages. This specification provides an extensible way toembed in a Web page all the information necessary to initialize a micropayment. TheMicropaymentsAPI Working Group [Member restricted]: The API to start the wallet andtransfer the information defined above to the wallet for processing. 2.1.c- Electronic payment Initiative The Joint Electronic Payment Initiative(JEPI) was a primary initiativein the Electronic Commerce Activity. It has addressed a standardized wayof automatable negotiating payment methods between browsers and servers onthe Web. 3.1- Metadata The Metadata Activity is thearchitectural underpinning of many of the Technology and Society activities.W3C's work on Digital Signatures, Privacy Protection, and Intellectual PropertyRights Management are all based on the Resource Description Framework(RDF) work that is at the heart of theMetadata Activity. Recently, inthe Electronic Commerce activity, theCommon Markup forMicropayment Per-fee-links specification has suggested to use the RDFmetadata technology for describing micropayments information. 3.2- Security and Integrity One element of trust in Electronic Commerce is the ability to reliablyassociate a statement with the person or organization who made it. Whilethe underlying cryptographic technology to accomplish this is available andwidely known, it has not yet been applied to a general-purpose system forcreating machine readable statements. The Digital Signature Initiative(DSig) fills this important role byspecifying how to sign statements expressed as metadata. Another element of trust is the ability to digitally sign Web resources andportions of protocol messages (anything referenciable by a URI) and proceduresfor computing and verifying such signatures. It is the mission of theXML-Signature WG to develop anXML compliant syntax for such mechanism. 3.3- Privacy Electronic Commerce involves the constant tension between the need for amerchant site to gain information about their costumers and the needfor these individuals to control the release of this information to others.The Platform for Privacy Preferences(P3P) addresses the twin goals of meetingthe data privacy expectations of consumers on the Web while assuring thatthe medium remains available and productive for Electronic Commerce. Followingthe principle of providing consumers notice of site privacy polices, andallowing users to express and act upon their privacy preferences in a flexiblemanner, one goal enhances the success of the other. In addition, P3P providesa mechanism developing standard, extensible data sets of personal informationto be transferred between user agents and servers, 3.4- Content Control The Platform for Internet Content Selection(PICS) was created as an alternativemodel to centralized government controls on indecent content. PICS encouragesdecentralized parental empowerment when addressing children's access toinappropriate material. PICS is a pair of protocols that allows labels to be applied to Internetcontent. These protocols empower any individual or organization to designand distribute labels reflecting their views about the content. PICS wasspearheaded by the Consortium as a practical alternative to global governmentalcensorship of the Internet. In addition, the same technology facilitatessearching the Web, and providing a foundation for establishing trust ininformation on the Web. 3.5- Intellectual Property Rights The W3C is considering the issue of making it easier for users to complywith Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)policies. Combining payment and labeling technologies will make it simplefor IP owners to express the terms and conditions related to their materials,and for users to comply with the stated policies. Business policies are extremelyimportant to the development of the Electronic Commerce. 3.6- XML schema Extensible Markup Language (XML) willplay an increasingly important role in the exchange of a wide variety ofdata on the Web, especially in Business to Business Electronic Commerce andElectronic Data Interchange. In addition to the XML, theXML Schema Working Group is addressing means for defining the structure, content and semanticsof such XML documents. TheXML Schema Requirementsdocument specifies the purpose, basic usage scenarios, design principles,and base requirements for an XML schema language. 3.7- Other technical common specifications Technical common specifications as standards are critical to the long termElectronic Commerce success on the Internet as they can allow products andservices from different vendors to work together. They also encourage competitionand reduce uncertainty in the global marketplace. W3C, as a global and neutraltechnology development forum, develops common specifications for theWeb in areas such as network protocols, graphical user interface, allowingreliability, interoperability, ease of use and scalability in ElectronicCommerce on the web. The Consortium is also working towards making information on the Web accessibleto all kind of devices such as mobiles phones(Mobile Access) and television(TVWeb), thereforeextending the access range for consumers to Electronic Commerce. 4- Acknowledged Submissions to W3C related to Electronic Commerce W3C Member organizations may submit submissions to propose technology orother ideas for consideration by W3C. W3C hasacknowledged Submissions fromMembers that are related to the Electronic Commerce area. These submissionswere brought to the attention of the participants in the Electronic CommerceInterest Group for consideration. Related Working Group are invited to pickup these Submissions for discussion as requirements and design input. These documents are also made available to the public for consideration. UCLP - The Universal Commerce Language and Protocol is an Extensible Markup Language (XML) application for metadata related to commercial products and companies and that can be used in identifying and retrieving product data residing across the Internet. ICE - The Information and Content Exchange Protocol proposes a protocol and data format to implement the shared business rules in the domain of syndicated content, on top of the Web infrastructure of XML, HTTP, and URIs. XFDL - The Extensible Forms Description Language describes an XML syntax to represent complex forms such as those found in business and government. SDML- The Signed Document Markup Language describes how to structure a complete signed document, with the material being signed as part of the document. We expect that a web-based document signature scheme would have to address external documents, also referenced by URI. SMDL was an important initial contribution to the XML Signature Working Group. 5- Other resources related to Electronic Commerce Following is a non exhaustive list of resources related to ElectronicCommerce: Biztalk - A community of standards users, with the goal of driving the rapid, consistent adoption of XML to enable electronic commerce and application integration. CommerceNet - CommerceNet is a non-profit membership organization meeting the evolving needs of companies doing electronic commerce. Since its founding in 1994, CommerceNet's mission has been to promote and advance interoperable electronic commerce to support emerging communities of commerce. ECML - The Electronic Commerce Modeling Language provides a simple set of guidelines for web merchants that will enable digital wallets from multiple vendors to automate the exchange of information between users and merchants. FSTC - The mission of the Financial Services Technology Consortium (FSTC) is to leverage the strength of US financial services organizations through joint research and development focused on technology opportunities, adding business value, managing risk, and reducing costs. IOTP - The Open Trading Protocol was developed by a number of organisations, working co-operatively to make widespread Internet trading a convenient and secure reality. OASIS - A community resource designed to provide a credible source of accurate, timely information about the application of XML in industrial and commercial settings. XML/EDI - Provides a standard framework to exchange different types of data -- for example, an invoice, healthcare claim, project status -- so that the information be it in a transaction, exchanged via an Application Program Interface (API), web automation, database portal, catalog, a workflow document or message can be searched, decoded, manipulated, and displayed consistently and correctly by first implementing EDI dictionaries and extending our vocabulary via on-line repositories to include our business language, rules and objects. 6- Conclusion W3C work on Web technologies has an an important enabling impact on ElectronicCommerce. Members requesting Submission Acknowledgment from W3C have obviouslydemonstrated their interest in the Electronic Commerce area. Though theElectronic commerce Activity is currently working on Micropayments, we haveto envision the future of this activity. Based on reaction to this document,we will consider hosting a face-to-face meeting of the Electronic CommerceInterest Group shortly. Members are welcome to join the mailing list forthe Electronic Commerce Interest Group. To do so, please send mail tow3c-ecommerce-ig-request@w3.org.Members are, as always, invited to suggest new Web technologies to exploreand to demonstrated their motivation related to Electronic Commerce.