Web Design and Applications - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Standards Web Design and Applications Web Architecture Semantic Web XML Technology Web of Services Web of Devices Browsers and Authoring Tools All Standards and Drafts About W3C Standards Skip W3C » Standards » Web Design and Applications Web Design and Applications On this page ? technology topics • news • upcoming events and talks Web Design and Applications involve the standards for building and Rendering Web pages, including HTML, CSS, SVG, device APIs, and other technologies for Web Applications (“WebApps”). This section also includes information on how to make pages accessible to people with disabilities (WCAG), to internationalize them, and make them work on mobile devices. HTML & CSS HTML and CSS are the fundamental technologies for building Web pages: HTML (html and xhtml) for structure, CSS for style and layout, including WebFonts. Find resources for good Web page design as well as helpful tools. JavaScript Web APIs Standard APIs for client-side Web Application development include those for Geolocation, XMLHttpRequest, and mobile widgets. W3C standards for document models (the “DOM”) and technologies such as XBL allow content providers to create interactive documents through scripting. Graphics W3C is the home of the widely deployed PNG raster format, SVG vector format, and the Canvas API. WebCGM is a more specialized format used, for example, in the fields of automotive engineering, aeronautics. Audio and Video Some of the W3C formats that enable authoring audio and video presentations include HTML, SVG, and SMIL (for synchronization). W3C is also working on a timed text format for captioning and other applications. Accessibility W3C’s Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) has published Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) to help authors create content that is accessible to people with disabilities. WAI-ARIA gives authors more tools to create accessible Web Applications by providing additional semantics about widgets and behaviors. Internationalization W3C has a mission to design technology that works across cultures and languages. W3C standards such as HTML and XML are built on Unicode, for instance. In addition, W3C has published guidance for authors related to language tags bi-directional (bidi) text, and more. Mobile Web W3C promotes “One Web” that is available on any device. W3C’s Mobile Web Best Practices help authors understand how to create content that provides a reasonable experience on a wide variety of devices, contexts, and locations. Privacy The Web is a powerful tool for communications and transactions of all sorts. It is important to consider privacy and security implications of the Web as part of technology design. Learn more about tracking and Web App security. Math on the Web Mathematics and formula are used on the Web for business reports, education materials and scientific research. W3C’s MathML enables mathematics to be served, received, and processed on the World Wide Web, just as HTML has enabled this functionality for other types of content. News HTML5: On Our Way to Recommendation 17 June2014 from W3C HTMLWorking Group In 2012, the HTML Working Group Chairs came up with a plan toprogress HTML, aka “Plan 2014“. The plan has several objectives: Produce a W3C Recommendation for HTML 5.0 before the end of2014, as well as a W3C Recommendation for HTML 5.1 before the endof 2016; Use the Candidate Recommendation of HTML5, which started inDecember 2012, to focus the testing effort where it isappropriate; Use modularity to manage the size and complexity of thespecifications. Over the past 2 years, we have continued to refine and improvethe HTML 5.0 specification. The HTML Working Group receives andtracks proposals from a variety of people in the community, mostprominently from the WHATWG. During the past 2 years, the HTML5editors have worked with the community to exchange ideas and thusavoid divergence among specifications. The HTML Landscapeliststhe differences between various HTML specifications. The HTML Working Group today has 97,000 tests for HTML5. As partof satisfying the W3C process requirements for CandidateRecommendation, we have tracked implementations of HTML5 features,and test results today show that there are at least 2implementations for 96.7% of the available tests. What about theother 3.3%? Those failures arise from how different browsers handleerrors, and the Working Group has concluded that these failures donot reflect differences in implementations that will significantlyaffect interoperability of real-world running code. Following thetest results, we removed several features from HTML 5.0due to their lack ofimplementations and stability, including the dialog element andscoped style sheet. Those features remain in the draft HTML 5.1specification for the time being. W3C would like to thank the community for helping to build thisvaluable test suite. The tests come from the Test the WebForward community effort and the contributors to the web-platform-tests github repository, and we strongly encourageWeb developers to continue to contribute to the testing effort andhelp make the Open Web Platform reliable. At the moment, the HTMLWorking Group is specifically looking for additional HTML 5.0 testsrelated to media elements and page navigation. As planned, given the substantive changes made to the document,we’re returning HTML 5.0 to Last Call. The scope of the expectedfeedback at this point is limited to changes that have taken placeduring the Candidate Recommendation phase and the deadline is 15July 2014. Once we have addressed the Last Call comments andfinalize the test suite, we expect to move the document to ProposedRecommendation in the fall. A few features may be removed from HTML5.0 but kept in HTML 5.1 if we can’t get enough implementations:the DataCue interface, <input type=time>, drag and drop, andthe new ruby model. Advancing HTML 5.0 towards Recommendation status is just onestep in advancing the Open Web Platform, a full-fledged programmingenvironment for rich, interactive, cross-platform applications,with HTML5 at its core. Several Groups are extending the HTMLmarkup language, including for responsive design, performance,accessibility or additional security purposes. The HTML WorkingGroup, the W3C Technical Architecture Group and the WebApplications Working Group, are looking to have an Extensible WebSummit in the middle of September where we will discuss the futureof HTML. We expect a formal announcement in early July. Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 17 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign Version 7.0of the Unicode Standardis now available, adding 2,834 newcharacters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols forthe Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji(pictographic symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-usedand historic scripts, as well as character additions to manyexisting scripts. These additions extend support for writtenlanguages of North America, China, India, other Asian countries,and Africa. See the link above for full details. Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters inlong-standing and widespread use in Wingdings and Webdingsfonts. Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. Newproperty values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach torendering Indic scripts. These include properties for joiningbehavior, new classes for numbers, and a further division of thesyllabic categories of viramas and rephas. With these enhancements,the default rendering for newly added Indic scripts can besignificantly improved. Unicode character properties were extended to the newcharacters. The old characters have enhancements to Script andAlphabetic properties, and casing and line-breaking behavior. Therewere also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese pronunciation entries, as wellas new or clarified stability policies for promoting interoperableimplementations. Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained insynchrony with the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version7.0. These will be released at the same time: UTS #10,Unicode Collation Algorithm— the standard for sorting Unicodetext UTS #46,Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing— for processing ofnon-ASCII URLs (IDNs) Workshop report: Summary of the LD4LT group kickoff / LIDERroadmapping workshop 11 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign The LIDER project haspublished a report on the first Linked Data forLanguage Technology event, which was held 21st March inalignment with the European Data Forum in Athens. Read the report. Industry stakeholders from many areas (localization, publishing,language technology applications etc.) and key researchers fromlinked data and language technology discussed promises andchallenges around linguistic linked data. The report summarizes allpresentations and includes an initial list of use cases andrequirements for linguistic linked data. This and the overalloutcome of the event will feed into work of the LD4LT group (seeespecially the LD4LT latest draft version of use cases), and the field ofmultilingual linked data in general. The LD4LT group is partof the MultilingualWeb community – learn more about relatedprojects. Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 06 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign A Last Call Working Draft of Encodinghas been published. While encodings have been defined to some extent,implementations have not always implemented them in the same way,have not always used the same labels, and often differ in dealingwith undefined and former proprietary areas of encodings. Thisspecification attempts to fill those gaps so that newimplementations do not have to reverse engineer encodingimplementations of the market leaders and existing implementationscan converge. The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version asof the date of its publication, intended to provide a stablereference for other specifications. We are hoping for people toreview the specification and send comments about any technicalareas that need attention (see the Status section for details). Please send comments by 1 July 2014. Updates to two Working Group Notes published 06 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign Authoring HTML: Handling Right-to-left Scripts and Authoring HTML: Language declarationshave both been updated toa new format that lists do’s and don’ts, but points to existing ornew articles for detailed information. This will significantly helpin keeping the material up to date in the future as technologychanges. The documents have also been thoroughly overhauled toreflect the latest changes and information on The first document provides advice to content authors using HTMLmarkup and CSS style sheets about how to create pages for languagesthat use right-to-left scripts, such as Arabic, Hebrew, Persian,Thaana, Urdu, etc. It explains how to create content inright-to-left scripts that builds on but goes beyond the Unicodebidirectional algorithm, as well as how to prepare content forlocalization into right-to-left scripts. The second helps content authors specify the language ofcontent, which is useful for a wide number of applications, fromlinguistically-sensitive searching to applying language-specificdisplay properties. In some cases the potential applications forlanguage information are still waiting for implementations to catchup, whereas in others it is a necessity today. Adding markup forlanguage information to content is something that can and should bedone now and as content is first developed. If not, it will be muchmore difficult to take advantage of any future developments. Last week: WebRTC, Net Neutrality, HTML5 advertising defeats Flash,etc. 02 June2014 from W3C HTMLWorking Group This is the 26 May – 2 June 2014edition of a “weekly digest ofW3C news and trends” that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest mailing list (publicly archived). This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3Ctechnology from online media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work isperceived in online media. W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends [What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention.Most recentfirst (popularity is flagged with a figure—number of times the same URIs or tweet was quoted/RTed.)] (23) First Public Working Drafts: W3C HTML FormHTTP Extensions, W3C HTML JSON Form Submission (43) Upcoming: Web.br 2014. ConferênciaWeb W3C Brasil (65) HTML5: HTML5 Pokémon (447) PureMarketing: La Publicidad HTML5 derrota a los tradicionales anuncios enFlash(HTML5 advertising defeats traditional ads in Flash) Open Web & net neutrality Quartz: When net neutrality backfires: Chile just killed free access toWikipedia and Facebook, 30 May CNET: Bored by the Net neutrality debate? Check it as a rap battle,26 May W3C in the Press (or blogs) 7articles since the 26-May Digest; a selectionfollows. You may read all articles in our PressClippingspage. Light Reading(2 June), What WebRTC Means for Telcos SD Times(30 May), SD Times 100: The Elements of Success The Register(29 May), ‘Hello? Hello? Yes, I’m calling you on my WEB BROWSER’ CIO(28 May), Can Digital Rights Management and the Open Web Coexist? One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to thefuture of Web and localization standards! 28 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference inDublin, the FEISGILTT event will again provide an opportunity to discusslatest developments around localization and multilingual Webtechnologies. The event is sponsored by the LIDER project. Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and asession about usage scenarios for linguistic linked data inlocalization. Speakers include Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), BryanSchnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) and many more. Register nowto meet the key players around standards thatwill influence today’s and future business. Last week: EmotionML is a Recommendation, Specifiction, TimBL atthe Webbys, Web Cryptography, etc. 28 May2014 from W3C HTMLWorking Group This is the 19-26 May 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3Cnews and trends” that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest mailing list (publicly archived). This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3Ctechnology from online media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work isperceived in online media. W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends [What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention.Most recentfirst (popularity is flagged with a figure—number of times the same URIs or tweet was quoted/RTed.)] (82) Specifiction: Experimenting with new ways ofdiscussing standards with a Discourseinstance[initiative of Robin Berjon] (66) Spec: Emotion MarkupLanguage (EmotionML) 1.0 is a W3C Recommendation (616) TechCrunch: AppGyver Launches Composer, A Drag-And-Drop Tool For Building HTML5Apps (20) Glyn Moody: Upcoming Workshop on Web Cryptography Next Steps (31) Web Cryptography API: Extractable keys[buzgilla] (31) Yale: Creatorof the World Wide Web @timberners_lee receives Honorary Doctor ofEngineering & Technology. #Yale2014 @w3c Open Web & net neutrality Webby Awards 2014: Sir Tim Berners-Lee’s remarks on the history and the future ofthe Web, including “Up to us.”, a plea for Net Neutrality (21 May 2014) W3C in the Press (or blogs) 1article since the 19-May Digest. You may read allarticles in our PressClippingspage. NYTimes.com | Bits(21 May), California Urges Websites to Disclose Online Tracking Last week: Mozilla implements EME, Draft charter of Web PaymentsInterest Group, W3C Advisory Board election, etc. 19 May2014 from W3C HTMLWorking Group This is the 9-19 May 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3Cnews and trends” that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest mailing list (publicly archived). This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3Ctechnology from online media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work isperceived in online media. W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends [What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention.Most recentfirst (popularity is flagged with a figure—number of times the same URIs or tweet was quoted/RTed.)] (34) EME: Open Letter on European Commission about DRM in HTML5 (13) Web Payments: First draft of future web payments interest group charterpublished (42) W3C AB: Boaz Sender running for the W3C Advisory Board (4.7K) Event: GlobalAccessibility Awareness Day. More results on #GAAD (928) EFF: CanThis Web Be Saved? Mozilla Accepts DRM, and We All Lose (906) Mozilla: Reconciling Mozilla’s Mission and the W3C EME (15) W3C Business Group: First Draft of Vehicle Data Interfaces published by Automotive andWeb Platform Business Group (66) CSS: Grid LayoutModule Level 1, Generated Content for Paged Media Module Draftspublished Open Web & net neutrality The Verge: The real battle for net neutrality just began(15 May 2014), AdiRobertson Gizmodo: So Long, Open Web: Mozilla Accepts Closed Source DRM and We AllLose(15 May 2014), Danny O’Brien – EFF Boston Globe: FCC plan guts net neutrality; open Web needs protection(14 May2014), W3C in the Press (or blogs) 6articles since the previous Digest, all aboutMozilla implementing EME. You may read them in our PressClippingspage. Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 15 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign The slides from the MultilingualWeb workshop (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshopare now available for download.Additional material (videos of the presentations, a workshop reportand more) will follow in the next weeks – stay tuned. Talks and Appearances 2014-09-25 (25 SEP) Crafting User Experience for the Fastest Growing Web Demographic: Older Users by Shawn Henry WebVisions Chicago Chicago, IL, USA See also the full list of W3C Talks and Appearances. Events 2014-08-27(27 AUG) – 2014-08-30(30 AUG) The Graphical Web Winchester, England The conference has expanded this year to invite technical presentations about the implementation and usage of a number oftechnologies being developed at W3C, such as SVG, Canvas, CSS and HTML5 audio/video. See full list of W3C Events. Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM,Keio, Beihang) Usage policiesapply.