Web of Services - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Standards Web Design and Applications Web Architecture Semantic Web XML Technology Web of Services Web of Devices Browsers and Authoring Tools All Standards and Drafts About W3C Standards Skip W3C » Standards » Web of Services Web of Services On this page ? technology topics • news • upcoming events and talks Web of Services refers to message-based design frequently found on the Web and in enterprise software. The Web of Services is based on technologies such as HTTP, XML, SOAP, WSDL, SPARQL, and others. Protocols Depending on the application constraints for exchanging data across the Web, developers can choose among a series of protocols such as HTTP, SOAP and Web Services. Service Description In specific environments, Web services description defines formally machine readable interfaces for accessing the data. WSDL, SML, and choreography and policy specifications enable descriptions, and Web Services and Semantic Web connect through semantic annotations. Security Transferring data from one domain to another domain or between applications needs sometimes a secure transaction and well defined document authentication. XML Encryption and XML Signature are key pieces of the XML security stack. Internationalization Internationalization of Web services concerns service descriptions, communicating language and locale, and internationization of human-readable messages exchanged by services. News Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 17 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices Version 7.0of the Unicode Standardis now available, adding 2,834 newcharacters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols forthe Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji(pictographic symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-usedand historic scripts, as well as character additions to manyexisting scripts. These additions extend support for writtenlanguages of North America, China, India, other Asian countries,and Africa. See the link above for full details. Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters inlong-standing and widespread use in Wingdings and Webdingsfonts. Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. Newproperty values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach torendering Indic scripts. These include properties for joiningbehavior, new classes for numbers, and a further division of thesyllabic categories of viramas and rephas. With these enhancements,the default rendering for newly added Indic scripts can besignificantly improved. Unicode character properties were extended to the newcharacters. The old characters have enhancements to Script andAlphabetic properties, and casing and line-breaking behavior. Therewere also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese pronunciation entries, as wellas new or clarified stability policies for promoting interoperableimplementations. Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained insynchrony with the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version7.0. These will be released at the same time: UTS #10,Unicode Collation Algorithm— the standard for sorting Unicodetext UTS #46,Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing— for processing ofnon-ASCII URLs (IDNs) Workshop report: Summary of the LD4LT group kickoff / LIDERroadmapping workshop 11 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices The LIDER project haspublished a report on the first Linked Data forLanguage Technology event, which was held 21st March inalignment with the European Data Forum in Athens. Read the report. Industry stakeholders from many areas (localization, publishing,language technology applications etc.) and key researchers fromlinked data and language technology discussed promises andchallenges around linguistic linked data. The report summarizes allpresentations and includes an initial list of use cases andrequirements for linguistic linked data. This and the overalloutcome of the event will feed into work of the LD4LT group (seeespecially the LD4LT latest draft version of use cases), and the field ofmultilingual linked data in general. The LD4LT group is partof the MultilingualWeb community – learn more about relatedprojects. Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 06 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices A Last Call Working Draft of Encodinghas been published. While encodings have been defined to some extent,implementations have not always implemented them in the same way,have not always used the same labels, and often differ in dealingwith undefined and former proprietary areas of encodings. Thisspecification attempts to fill those gaps so that newimplementations do not have to reverse engineer encodingimplementations of the market leaders and existing implementationscan converge. The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version asof the date of its publication, intended to provide a stablereference for other specifications. We are hoping for people toreview the specification and send comments about any technicalareas that need attention (see the Status section for details). Please send comments by 1 July 2014. One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to thefuture of Web and localization standards! 28 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference inDublin, the FEISGILTT event will again provide an opportunity to discusslatest developments around localization and multilingual Webtechnologies. The event is sponsored by the LIDER project. Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and asession about usage scenarios for linguistic linked data inlocalization. Speakers include Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), BryanSchnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) and many more. Register nowto meet the key players around standards thatwill influence today’s and future business. Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 15 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices The slides from the MultilingualWeb workshop (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshopare now available for download.Additional material (videos of the presentations, a workshop reportand more) will follow in the next weeks – stay tuned. MultilingualWeb workshop 7-8 May – follow via live stream! 06 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices The MultilingualWeb workshop on 7-8 May will be streamed live ! Follow the event online if you cannot make it toMadrid. For details about speakers and presentations see the workshop program . The workshop is supported by the LIDER project and sponsoredby Verisign and Lionbridge. Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8May 11 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices See the program.The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma,Director of Language Engineering from the Wikimedia Foundation. Sheis followed by a strong line up in sessions entitled Developers,Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including speakers fromMicrosoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL,Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On theafternoon of the second day we will hold Open Space breakoutdiscussions. Abstracts and details about an additional postersession will be provided shortly. The program will also feature an LD4LT event on May 8-9, focusing on text analytics and theusefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for multiilngual text andcontent analytics, and on language resources and aspects ofconverting selected types of language resources into RDF. Participation in both events is free. See the Call for Participation for details about how to register for theMultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT event requires a separate registrationand you have the opportunity to submitposition statements about language resources and RDF. If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, soplease be sure to register soon to ensure that you get a place. The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commissionand coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standardsrelated to all aspects of creating, localizing and deploying themultilingual Web. The workshops are successful because they attracta wide range of participants, from fields such as localization,language technology, browser development, content authoring andtool development, etc., to create a holistic view of theinteroperability needs of the multilingual Web. We look forward to seeing you in Madrid! CLDR Version 25 Released 20 March2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices Unicode CLDR 25 has been released, providing an update to thekey building blocks for software supporting the world’s languages.This data is used by a wide spectrum of companies for theirsoftware internationalization and localization, adapting softwareto the conventions of different languages for such common softwaretasks. Unicode CLDR 25 focused primarily on improvements to the LDMLstructure and tools, and on consistency of data. There are manysmaller data fixes, but there was no general data submission.Changes include the following: New rules for plural ranges (1-2 liters) for 72 locales,plurals for 2 locales, and ordinals for 18 locales. Better locale matching with fallbacks for languages, defaultlanguages for continents and subcontinents, and default scripts formore languages. Two new locales: West Frisian (fy) and Uyghur (ug). Two new metazones: Mexico_Pacific and Mexico_Northwest Updated zh pinyin & zhuyin collations and translators forUnicode 6.3 kMandarin data Updated keyboard layout data for OSX, Windows and others. This version contains data for 238 languages and 259territories—740 locales in all. Details are provided in http://cldr.unicode.org/index/downloads/cldr-25, along with adetailed Migration section. Speaker deadline for Madrid MultilingualWeb Workshop is Friday,March 14 05 March2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices We would like to remind you that the deadline for speakerproposals for the 7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014,Madrid, Spain) is on Friday, March 14, at 23:59 UTC. Featuring a keynote by Alolita Sharma (Director of Engineering,Wikipedia) and breakout sessions on linked open data and othercritical topics, this Workshop will focus on the advances andchallenges faced in making the Web truly multilingual. It providesan outstanding and influential forum for thought leaders to sharetheir ideas and gain critical feedback. While the organizers have already received many excellentsubmissions, there is still time to make a proposal, and weencourage interested parties to do so by the deadline. With roughly200 attendees anticipated for the Workshop from a wide variety ofprofiles, we are certain to have a large and diverse audience thatcan provide constructive and useful feedback, with stimulatingdiscussion about all of the presentations. For more information and to register, please visit the MadridWorkshop Call for Participation. Alolita Sharma (Wikipedia) to deliver keynote at 7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014, Madrid) 24February 2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebServices We are please to announce that Alolita Sharma, Director ofEngineering for Internationalization and Localization at Wikipedia,will deliver the keynote at the 7th Multilingual Web Workshop, “NewHorizons for the Multilingual Web,” in Madrid, Spain (7–8 May2014). With over 30 million articles in 286 languages as ofJanuary 1, 2014, Wikipedia has now become one of the largestproviders of multilingual content in the world. Because of itsuser-generated and constantly changing content, many traditionalprocesses for managing multilingual content on the web either donot work or do not scale well for Wikipedia. Alolita Sharma’skeynote will highlight Wikipedia’s diversity in multilingualuser-generated content and the language technologies that Wikipediahas had to develop to support its unprecedented growth of content.She will also discuss the many challenges Wikipedia faces inproviding language support for the mobile web. The Multilingual Web Workshop series brings togetherparticipants interested in the best practices, new technologies,and standards needed to help content creators, localizers, languagetools developers, and others address the new opportunities andchallenges of the multilingual Web. It will provide for networkingacross communities and building connections. Registration for the Workshop is free, and earlyregistrationis recommended since space at the Workshop islimited. There is still opportunity for individuals to submit proposalsto speak at the workshop. Ideal proposals will highlight emergingchallenges or novel solutions for reaching out to a global,multilingual audience. The deadline for speaker proposals is March14, but early submission is strongly encouraged. See the Call for Participationfor more details. This workshop is made possible by the generous support of theLIDER project, which will organize a roadmapping workshop on linkeddata and content analytics as one of the tracks at Multilingual WebWorkshop. Talks and Appearances None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances. Events 2014-09-10(10 SEP) – 2014-09-11(11 SEP) Workshop on Web Cryptography Next Steps Mountain View, USA Hosted by Microsoft, sponsored by Google and Tyfone The Workshop will focus on authentication, hardware tokens, and next steps for cryptography on the Web. See full list of W3C Events. Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM,Keio, Beihang) Usage policiesapply.