Web Architecture - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Standards Web Design and Applications Web Architecture Semantic Web XML Technology Web of Services Web of Devices Browsers and Authoring Tools All Standards and Drafts About W3C Standards Skip W3C » Standards » Web Architecture Web Architecture On this page ? technology topics • news • upcoming events and talks Web Architecture focuses on the foundation technologies and principles which sustain the Web, including URIs and HTTP. Architecture Principles Web Architecture principles help to design technologies by providing guidance and articulating the issues around some specific choices. Identifiers We share things by their names. URL, URI, IRI is the way to name things on the Web and manipulate them. Some additional addressing needs in the Web Services stack motivated some additional layers. Protocols Protocols are the vehicle for exchanging our ideas. HTTP is the core protocol of the Web. W3C is also working on XML Protocols and SOAP in relation to Web Services. Meta Formats XML, the Extensible Markup Language, is used to build new formats at low cost (due to widely available tools to manipulate content in those new formats). RDF and OWL allow people to define vocabularies (“ontologies”) of terms as part of the Semantic Web. Protocol and Meta Format Considerations Documents on the Web are loosely joined pieces by identifiers. It creates a maze of rich interactions between protocols and formats. Internationalization W3C has worked with the community on the internationalization of identifiers (IRIs) and a general character model for the Web. News Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 17 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture Version 7.0of the Unicode Standardis now available, adding 2,834 newcharacters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols forthe Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji(pictographic symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-usedand historic scripts, as well as character additions to manyexisting scripts. These additions extend support for writtenlanguages of North America, China, India, other Asian countries,and Africa. See the link above for full details. Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters inlong-standing and widespread use in Wingdings and Webdingsfonts. Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. Newproperty values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach torendering Indic scripts. These include properties for joiningbehavior, new classes for numbers, and a further division of thesyllabic categories of viramas and rephas. With these enhancements,the default rendering for newly added Indic scripts can besignificantly improved. Unicode character properties were extended to the newcharacters. The old characters have enhancements to Script andAlphabetic properties, and casing and line-breaking behavior. Therewere also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese pronunciation entries, as wellas new or clarified stability policies for promoting interoperableimplementations. Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained insynchrony with the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version7.0. These will be released at the same time: UTS #10,Unicode Collation Algorithm— the standard for sorting Unicodetext UTS #46,Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing— for processing ofnon-ASCII URLs (IDNs) Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 06 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture A Last Call Working Draft of Encodinghas been published. While encodings have been defined to some extent,implementations have not always implemented them in the same way,have not always used the same labels, and often differ in dealingwith undefined and former proprietary areas of encodings. Thisspecification attempts to fill those gaps so that newimplementations do not have to reverse engineer encodingimplementations of the market leaders and existing implementationscan converge. The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version asof the date of its publication, intended to provide a stablereference for other specifications. We are hoping for people toreview the specification and send comments about any technicalareas that need attention (see the Status section for details). Please send comments by 1 July 2014. Capability URLs: We Need Your Feedback 22 May2014 from W3C TAGLines The battle for web security and privacy is fought at manylevels. Sometimes common practice in web application design canlead to data leakage with untended consequences for users. A goodexample of this came up recently where confidential files sharedthrough common web-based document sharing services were beingexposed unintentionaly to third parties because the private URLsused to share them had been unintentionally leaked. Dropbox and Box Leaked Shared Private Files Through Google http://t.co/hvuSel9Xvzv/ @slashdot [ cf http://t.co/Mjhp7hsstd/cc @JeniT] — Daniel Appelquist (@torgo) May7, 2014 URLs that allow a user to access an otherwise privilegedresource or information are called Capability URLs, and while they can be powerful, theycan also cause potential problems when used improperly. TAG member Jeni Tennison has been working on a draft definingthe space of capability URLs and outlining some good practices forusage. We think this document should be useful for web builders whoare thinking about incorporating this pattern into theirapplications. We think it’s pretty good, but we need your feedbackbefore we finalize it and release it as a TAG finding. The draft may be found here: http://www.w3.org/TR/capability-urls/ and if you have feedbackyou are encouraged to raise an issue on github ore-mail us on the TAG publicmailing list. Thanks! New version of Unicode Ideographic Variation Database released 19 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture The Unicode Consortium is pleased to announce the release ofversion 2014-05-16 of the Unicode Ideographic Variation Database(IVD). This release registers the new Moji_Joho collection, alongwith the first 10,710 sequences in that collection, 9,685 of whichare shared by the registered Hanyo-Denshi collection. Details canbe found at http://www.unicode.org/ivd/. Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 15 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture The slides from the MultilingualWeb workshop (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshopare now available for download.Additional material (videos of the presentations, a workshop reportand more) will follow in the next weeks – stay tuned. Extensible Web Summit Roundup 17 April2014 from W3C TAGLines On April 4th, with the much-appreciated help and support of AdobeSystems, the TAG organized an event in San Francisco called theExtensible Web Summit. As I wrote before the event, the intention was to bringtogether web developers and web platform developers from the localarea to discuss upcoming, in-development web platform technologiesand standards both to throw a spotlight on some of the topics wethink are key and to guide the TAG’s thinking. Judgingfrom the feedback we’ve received, I we achieved these goals andmore. There were quite a few positive views shared on Twitter,including: Epic day at the #ExtWebSummit. Devs, standards, and implementors all workingtogether. Really excited about the future of the web platform. — Erik Bryn (@ebryn) April 5, 2014 Learning about ServiceWorkers, networking APIs for things likeoffline cache https://t.co/WXXmn1D0tI#ExtWebSummit — Ans (@anselmbradford) April 4, 2014 Discussion on web packaging & spdy- esp when web becomesmodular w components etc. Concat all scripts? #extwebsummit pic.twitter.com/3r2F7FrFtO — Tomomi ? Imura (@girlie_mac) April 4, 2014 The Extensible Web Summit was bloody great & should be doneagain. Notes at http://t.co/wdQIaH9G6i– niceone @torgo@annevk@domenicet al — Jake Archibald (@jaffathecake) April 5, 2014 …and the summit has inspired a few blog posts, from Alan Sterns , Brian Kardell and Simon St. Laurent. The final schedule of sessions and links to the unfiltered notesfrom these sessions can be found on the Lanyrdpagefor the event. Thanks again to everyone who came along!Based on the feedback we received, I think it’s likely we’ll berunning events in the future in the same format. Watch this spaceand follow @w3ctagon Twitter to keep up to date. Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8May 11 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture See the program.The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma,Director of Language Engineering from the Wikimedia Foundation. Sheis followed by a strong line up in sessions entitled Developers,Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including speakers fromMicrosoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL,Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On theafternoon of the second day we will hold Open Space breakoutdiscussions. Abstracts and details about an additional postersession will be provided shortly. The program will also feature an LD4LT event on May 8-9, focusing on text analytics and theusefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for multiilngual text andcontent analytics, and on language resources and aspects ofconverting selected types of language resources into RDF. Participation in both events is free. See the Call for Participation for details about how to register for theMultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT event requires a separate registrationand you have the opportunity to submitposition statements about language resources and RDF. If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, soplease be sure to register soon to ensure that you get a place. The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commissionand coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standardsrelated to all aspects of creating, localizing and deploying themultilingual Web. The workshops are successful because they attracta wide range of participants, from fields such as localization,language technology, browser development, content authoring andtool development, etc., to create a holistic view of theinteroperability needs of the multilingual Web. We look forward to seeing you in Madrid! The Extensible Web Summit 17 March2014 from W3C TAGLines We’re running an event on Friday the 4thof April in San Francisco and you’re invited. For the past year, along-side our regular face-to-face meetings,the TAG has been holding evening developer meet-ups under themoniker “Meet the TAG.” The radical idea has been to take advantageof the fact that our meetings are happening in cities with largeconcentrations of Web developers to connect with these developercommunities in a meaningful and useful way. The hopeful outcome isto both keep developers informed about what we’re doing, presumablyon their behalf, with their platform, and to drive somefeedback back into the TAG to help guide our thinking and our work.The results have generally been good, generating useful criticism and feedbackwhich we’ve tried to take on board, and making the TAGless of an echo chamber. In the mean time we’ve met lots ofdevelopers who take a keen interest in web architecture and thefuture of the web platform. For our next face-to-face meeting in San Francisco, we’replanning to expand this idea to a full-fledged one-day event,bringing in web developers and web platformdevelopers, people who are deeply invested in theweb platform but may not be participating directly in standards.We’re calling this event the Extensible Web Summit. As Twitter denizen Daniel Buchner put it: @briankardell @wycats @w3ctag are youtelling me we’re going to try developing API “products” usingdirect “customer” feedback? Mind = blown — Daniel Buchner (@csuwildcat) December 9, 2013 The web is 25 years old. What do we want this platform to looklike 25 years from now? This event will bring together web platformdevelopers and practitioners from different communities andbackgrounds to focus on the future of the web architecture andplatform. With the exception of some curated lightning talks at thebeginning of the day to set the scene, the event will be run as an unconference, with the agenda self-organized by theparticipants. We’d like to thank Adobe Systems for steppingforward as our host for this event. Who should attend? We would ideally like to pack this event withplatform developers, framework developers and web developers withan interest in helping to drive the future of the web platform. Ifyou read and liked what you saw in the Extensible WebManifesto and you’d like to learn more and influence thedirection of this thinking, then we’d love to have you along.Likewise if you are interested in other web technologies such asreal time communication, platform & device APIs, security,permissions, manifests & packaging, offline usage, JavaScriptpromises & streams, push notifications and touch. The event isfree to attend, but is filling up fast. If this sounds like yourcup of tea, visit our Lanyrd pageand grab aticket. Speaker deadline for Madrid MultilingualWeb Workshop is Friday,March 14 05 March2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture We would like to remind you that the deadline for speakerproposals for the 7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014,Madrid, Spain) is on Friday, March 14, at 23:59 UTC. Featuring a keynote by Alolita Sharma (Director of Engineering,Wikipedia) and breakout sessions on linked open data and othercritical topics, this Workshop will focus on the advances andchallenges faced in making the Web truly multilingual. It providesan outstanding and influential forum for thought leaders to sharetheir ideas and gain critical feedback. While the organizers have already received many excellentsubmissions, there is still time to make a proposal, and weencourage interested parties to do so by the deadline. With roughly200 attendees anticipated for the Workshop from a wide variety ofprofiles, we are certain to have a large and diverse audience thatcan provide constructive and useful feedback, with stimulatingdiscussion about all of the presentations. For more information and to register, please visit the MadridWorkshop Call for Participation. Alolita Sharma (Wikipedia) to deliver keynote at 7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014, Madrid) 24February 2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture We are please to announce that Alolita Sharma, Director ofEngineering for Internationalization and Localization at Wikipedia,will deliver the keynote at the 7th Multilingual Web Workshop, “NewHorizons for the Multilingual Web,” in Madrid, Spain (7–8 May2014). With over 30 million articles in 286 languages as ofJanuary 1, 2014, Wikipedia has now become one of the largestproviders of multilingual content in the world. Because of itsuser-generated and constantly changing content, many traditionalprocesses for managing multilingual content on the web either donot work or do not scale well for Wikipedia. Alolita Sharma’skeynote will highlight Wikipedia’s diversity in multilingualuser-generated content and the language technologies that Wikipediahas had to develop to support its unprecedented growth of content.She will also discuss the many challenges Wikipedia faces inproviding language support for the mobile web. The Multilingual Web Workshop series brings togetherparticipants interested in the best practices, new technologies,and standards needed to help content creators, localizers, languagetools developers, and others address the new opportunities andchallenges of the multilingual Web. It will provide for networkingacross communities and building connections. Registration for the Workshop is free, and earlyregistrationis recommended since space at the Workshop islimited. There is still opportunity for individuals to submit proposalsto speak at the workshop. Ideal proposals will highlight emergingchallenges or novel solutions for reaching out to a global,multilingual audience. The deadline for speaker proposals is March14, but early submission is strongly encouraged. See the Call for Participationfor more details. This workshop is made possible by the generous support of theLIDER project, which will organize a roadmapping workshop on linkeddata and content analytics as one of the tracks at Multilingual WebWorkshop. Talks and Appearances None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances. Events None. See full list of W3C Events. Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM,Keio, Beihang) Usage policiesapply.