XML Technology - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Standards Web Design and Applications Web Architecture Semantic Web XML Technology Web of Services Web of Devices Browsers and Authoring Tools All Standards and Drafts About W3C Standards Skip W3C » Standards » XML Technology XML Technology On this page ? technology topics • news • upcoming events and talks XML Technologies including XML, XML Namespaces, XML Schema, XSLT, Efficient XML Interchange (EXI), and other related standards. XML Essentials XML is shouldered by a set of essential technologies such as the infoset and namespaces. They address issues when using XML in specific applications contexts. Schema Formal descriptions of vocabularies create flexibility in authoring environments and quality control chains. W3C’s XML Schema, SML, and data binding technologies provide the tools for quality control of XML data. Security Manipulating data with XML requires sometimes integrity, authentication and privacy. XML signature, encryption, and xkms can help create a secure environment for XML. Transformation Very frequently one wants to transform XML content into other formats (including other XML formats). XSLT and XPath are very powerful tools for creating different representations of XML content. Query XQuery (supported by XPath) is a query language for XML to extract data, similar to the role of SQL for databases, or SPARQL for the Semantic Web. Components The XML ecosystem is using additional tools to create a richer environment for using and manipulating XML documents. These components include style sheets, xlink xml:id, xinclude, xpointer, xforms, xml fragments, and events. Processing A processing model defines what operations should be performed in what order on an XML document. Internationalization W3C has worked with the community on the internationalization of XML, for instance for specifying the language of XML content. Publishing XML grew out of the technical publication community. Use XSL-FO to publish even large or complex multilingual XML documents to HTML, PDF or other formats; include SVG diagrams and MathML formulas in the output. News Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 17 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore Version 7.0of the Unicode Standardis now available, adding 2,834 newcharacters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols forthe Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji(pictographic symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-usedand historic scripts, as well as character additions to manyexisting scripts. These additions extend support for writtenlanguages of North America, China, India, other Asian countries,and Africa. See the link above for full details. Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters inlong-standing and widespread use in Wingdings and Webdingsfonts. Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. Newproperty values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach torendering Indic scripts. These include properties for joiningbehavior, new classes for numbers, and a further division of thesyllabic categories of viramas and rephas. With these enhancements,the default rendering for newly added Indic scripts can besignificantly improved. Unicode character properties were extended to the newcharacters. The old characters have enhancements to Script andAlphabetic properties, and casing and line-breaking behavior. Therewere also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese pronunciation entries, as wellas new or clarified stability policies for promoting interoperableimplementations. Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained insynchrony with the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version7.0. These will be released at the same time: UTS #10,Unicode Collation Algorithm— the standard for sorting Unicodetext UTS #46,Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing— for processing ofnon-ASCII URLs (IDNs) Workshop report: Summary of the LD4LT group kickoff / LIDERroadmapping workshop 11 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore The LIDER project haspublished a report on the first Linked Data forLanguage Technology event, which was held 21st March inalignment with the European Data Forum in Athens. Read the report. Industry stakeholders from many areas (localization, publishing,language technology applications etc.) and key researchers fromlinked data and language technology discussed promises andchallenges around linguistic linked data. The report summarizes allpresentations and includes an initial list of use cases andrequirements for linguistic linked data. This and the overalloutcome of the event will feed into work of the LD4LT group (seeespecially the LD4LT latest draft version of use cases), and the field ofmultilingual linked data in general. The LD4LT group is partof the MultilingualWeb community – learn more about relatedprojects. Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 06 June2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore A Last Call Working Draft of Encodinghas been published. While encodings have been defined to some extent,implementations have not always implemented them in the same way,have not always used the same labels, and often differ in dealingwith undefined and former proprietary areas of encodings. Thisspecification attempts to fill those gaps so that newimplementations do not have to reverse engineer encodingimplementations of the market leaders and existing implementationscan converge. The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version asof the date of its publication, intended to provide a stablereference for other specifications. We are hoping for people toreview the specification and send comments about any technicalareas that need attention (see the Status section for details). Please send comments by 1 July 2014. One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to thefuture of Web and localization standards! 28 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference inDublin, the FEISGILTT event will again provide an opportunity to discusslatest developments around localization and multilingual Webtechnologies. The event is sponsored by the LIDER project. Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and asession about usage scenarios for linguistic linked data inlocalization. Speakers include Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), BryanSchnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) and many more. Register nowto meet the key players around standards thatwill influence today’s and future business. Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 15 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore The slides from the MultilingualWeb workshop (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshopare now available for download.Additional material (videos of the presentations, a workshop reportand more) will follow in the next weeks – stay tuned. MultilingualWeb workshop 7-8 May – follow via live stream! 06 May2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore The MultilingualWeb workshop on 7-8 May will be streamed live ! Follow the event online if you cannot make it toMadrid. For details about speakers and presentations see the workshop program . The workshop is supported by the LIDER project and sponsoredby Verisign and Lionbridge. Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8May 11 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore See the program.The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma,Director of Language Engineering from the Wikimedia Foundation. Sheis followed by a strong line up in sessions entitled Developers,Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including speakers fromMicrosoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL,Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On theafternoon of the second day we will hold Open Space breakoutdiscussions. Abstracts and details about an additional postersession will be provided shortly. The program will also feature an LD4LT event on May 8-9, focusing on text analytics and theusefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for multiilngual text andcontent analytics, and on language resources and aspects ofconverting selected types of language resources into RDF. Participation in both events is free. See the Call for Participation for details about how to register for theMultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT event requires a separate registrationand you have the opportunity to submitposition statements about language resources and RDF. If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, soplease be sure to register soon to ensure that you get a place. The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commissionand coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standardsrelated to all aspects of creating, localizing and deploying themultilingual Web. The workshops are successful because they attracta wide range of participants, from fields such as localization,language technology, browser development, content authoring andtool development, etc., to create a holistic view of theinteroperability needs of the multilingual Web. We look forward to seeing you in Madrid! Registration for Workshop on Linked Data, Language Technologies andMultilingual Content Analytics now open! 04 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore Register now for the recently announced workshop on Linked Data, LanguageTechnologies and Multilingual Content Analytics (8-9 May, Madrid).A preliminary agenda has been created and the registration formis available. If you are interested in contributing a position statementplease indicate this in the dedicated field in the registrationform. The workshop organizers will come back to you with questionsto answer in the position statement. We then will select whichstatements are appropriate for presentations on 9 May, and informyou by 28 April. We are looking forward to see you in Madrid, both for this eventand the MultilingualWeb workshop! Updated article: Choosing & applying a character encoding 01 April2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore This updatebrings the article in line with recent developmentsin HTML5, and reorganizes the material so that readers can findinformation more quickly. This led to the article being almostcompletely rewritten. The article addresses the question: Which character encodingshould I use for my content, and how do I apply it to mycontent? German, Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, Swedish andUkrainian translators are asked to update their translation of thisarticle within the next month, otherwise the translations will beremoved per the translation policy, since the changes aresubstantive. Speaker deadline for Madrid MultilingualWeb Workshop is Friday,March 14 05 March2014 from Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore We would like to remind you that the deadline for speakerproposals for the 7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014,Madrid, Spain) is on Friday, March 14, at 23:59 UTC. Featuring a keynote by Alolita Sharma (Director of Engineering,Wikipedia) and breakout sessions on linked open data and othercritical topics, this Workshop will focus on the advances andchallenges faced in making the Web truly multilingual. It providesan outstanding and influential forum for thought leaders to sharetheir ideas and gain critical feedback. While the organizers have already received many excellentsubmissions, there is still time to make a proposal, and weencourage interested parties to do so by the deadline. With roughly200 attendees anticipated for the Workshop from a wide variety ofprofiles, we are certain to have a large and diverse audience thatcan provide constructive and useful feedback, with stimulatingdiscussion about all of the presentations. For more information and to register, please visit the MadridWorkshop Call for Participation. Talks and Appearances None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances. Events None. See full list of W3C Events. Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2010 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM,Keio, Beihang) Usage policiesapply.